---
title: Don't worry, I'm okay
date: 2021-05-12
location: Jerusalem, Israel
description: We interrupt our regularly scheduled radio silence for this short update on current events
main-image: https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/twWFsKbzUGnmDjp5rq2UwI4-O0qdlOFRy3khDmjl9v92n7MKYFMACT3GtWKcI12JCsm8P1GEn4ZPQhXB6ez4E7EeptNNlzqtU_PZYSrAGIVKCyNtTvn65N5nHGCocMJTEyhpqSHRSw=w2400
# pictures:
#   - 
#     photo:
#     caption:
---

In case you haven't heard, the last couple days have been pretty hectic in Israel. I'd like to start with a disclaimer that I am totally fine, mostly just in disbelief that I'm actually in the middle of it instead of reading about what's happening from a foreign country. There are many factors relating to the recent escalation in the Israel-Palestinian conflict, so I'd like to take some time to explain what I've gathered before going back and (eventually) telling you about everything else that has happened with my program since arriving in Israel.

The recent events that Hamas is hanging onto as reason behind their attatcks is the culmination of a legal battle that has been going on for almost 50 years between Palestinian families and Jewish settlers. Earlier this year, the district court ruled in favor of the Jewish families, but it has since been appealed to the Israeli Supreme Court, who has now postponed the hearing they were supposed to have on the case this Monday. The fact that Monday was Yom Yerushalayim, the anniversary of when Jerusalem was either reunified, occupied, or liberated by Israeli forces (depending on who you ask) during the 1967 Six-Day War, and the fact that the month of Ramadan was drawing to a close only served to increase tensions.

After days of violence between Palestinians and Israeli security in Jerusalem, there was lots of drama surrounding the annual Yom Yerushalayim parade, making it necessary to reroute it away from muslim neighborhoods and locking down the Temple Mount to both Jews and Palestinians. This lockdown led to an ultimatum given by Hamas to remove all forces from Temple Mount by 6pm on Monday or else. Israel chose the "or else" option.

Not too long after 6pm, air raid sirens went off in Jerusalem and everyone on our program was pulled out of our ICC classes going on then (ironically covering the Israel-Palestine conflict) to go to a protected area. The picture at the top was taken a day later of our classroom, still covered with the things we'd left behind in our rush to safety. 7 missiles were shot at Jerusalem, although only 2 came anywhere close. Thankfully, we did not have to stay in the protected area for too long, but we were supposed to stay together as a group for the rest of the day.

Since Monday, things have escalated quickly, with Israel fighting back, and Hamas taking offense to this, shooting over a thousand rockets at Israel out of the Gaza Strip. Unfortunately, most American news outlets have either not been following these events, or have been showing greatly biased sides of the story. This was only a very short recap, but if you want to learn more, I would recommend checking out [The Jerusalem Post](https://www.jpost.com/), [Ynet](https://www.ynetnews.com/category/3083), or [Haaretz](https://www.haaretz.com/).