---
title: It almost feels like I'm there
location: Falls Church, Virginia
date: 2021-02-15
description: Hebrew Classes and my first One2One meeting
main-image: https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/dk6JDFOdiJGGx-7dC_f4SYBs_N4aFRDpK9LKgRvz6DKVHwqupCtY1FWfm42iEtvG_E3VTgZY_hvCvL4OuMtErw6rn1m2JT2VBIuj1KXMVHf5vUS3d45GnYlbMf8oeygmKVlGOkVyng=w2400
---

Yes, I really did tape a picture of Jerusalem over the window to make it feel more like I'm in Israel. No, it is not actually working. <br><br>

Thankfully, there are a couple things TRY is doing to help with this. I know you have all been waiting in anticipation since my last post about which Hebrew class I was put in, and I can now tell you it was 1+. Apparently, there are six possible levels you can be in, 1-6, and 1+ is just level 1 but skipping the first couple lessons dedicated to learning the alphabet.

The way a class normally goes is that the teacher starts by reading a long text in English and asking us to translate dialogue into Hebrew. For example, she might say "A man is walking down the street, and asks a woman, 'Do you know where the bookstore is?'" We then have to translate the sentence the man said into Hebrew, "?את יודעת איפה חנות ספר׳ם" (At yoda-at ayfo chanut sfarim?) However, we only spoke the Hebrew, instead of seeing it written out. This took the majority of the classtime, 50 minutes to an hour. For the end of class, we were given a bunch of vocabulary words from the text in English and asked to write them in Hebrew. This was hard because not only did we have to remember what the Hebrew word was, but also had to figure out how to spell them. <br><br>

Also, I have my first One2One meeting yesterday! [One2One](https://www.one2one.org.il/) is a new program that was created to help give Diaspora and Israeli Jewish teens a chance to make up for the many interactions that would be happening regularly during a normal year, but hasn't because of COVID. Although it isn't run through the program I am on, TRY is requiring all of its students to participate in it. When registering, I was given a list of words to describe my personality and told to choose four that best fit. This was then used to match me with an Israeli teenager who I will meet with a total of 5 times for 30 minutes each. We were given a list of [discussion questions](https://www.one2one.org.il/content-all) for each session to help stimulate conversation. This week was just trying to get to know each other a bit better, but in the upcoming sessions we're supposed to go into some deeper topics.

I was paired with Eden, an Israeli girl who is the same age as me. We went through all the discussion questions in the first ten minutes or so, but then just started talking for the rest of the time. Those first ten minutes felt a bit forced, but the rest of the time was really nice! I'm looking forward to getting to know her better and discussing some heavier subjects. <br><br>

One final thing to report was that last night, a couple of the TRY students put together a study-hall Zoom for people to work on homework and have a chance to talk to one another in a more informal setting. There have been a couple other similar opportunities to hang out, and although it's no substitute for actually living together, it was nice to get to know each other outside of classes and staff-run *peulot* (events).

I know this post was a bit shorter than the one before, but things have mostly settled into a routine by now. Hopefully when I actually get to Israel I will have more interesting things to talk about.